Having a plan is just one
part of securing assets.
Once the plan is in action, the other
part is making sure everyone's following along.
In security, we call this compliance.
Compliance is the process of
adhering to internal standards and
external regulations.
Small companies and large organizations
around the world place security compliance
at the top of their list of priorities.
At a high-level, maintaining trust,
reputation, safety, and
the integrity of your data are just a few
reasons to be concerned about compliance.
Fines, penalties, and
lawsuits are other reasons.
This is particularly true for
companies in highly regulated industries,
like health care, energy, and finance.
Being out of compliance with
a regulation can cause long lasting
financial and reputational effects that
can seriously impact a business.
Regulations are rules
set by a government or
other authority to control
the way something is done.
Like policies,
regulations exist to protect people and
their information, but on a larger scale.
Compliance can be a complex process
because of the many regulations that
exist all around the world.
For our purpose, we're going to focus
on a framework of security compliance,
the U.S. based NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
Earlier in the program, you learned
the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, or NIST.
One of the primary roles of NIST is to
openly provide companies with a set of
frameworks and security standards that
reflect key security related regulations.
The NIST Cybersecurity Framework
is a voluntary framework that consists of
standards, guidelines, and best practices
to manage cybersecurity risk.
Commonly known as the CSF,
this framework was developed to help
businesses secure one of their most important
assets, information.
The CSF consists of three main components:
the core, it's tiers, and it's profiles.
Let's explore each of these together
to build a better understanding
of how NIST's CSF is used.
The core is basically a simplified
version of the functions, or
duties, of a security plan.
The CSF core identifies five
broad functions:
identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover.
Think of these categories of
the core as a security checklist.
After the core, the next NIST
component we'll discuss is its tiers.
These provide security
teams with a way to measure
performance across each of
the five functions of the core.
Tiers range from Level-1 to Level-4.
Level-1, or passive, indicates a function
is reaching bare minimum standards.
Level-4, or
adaptive, is an indication that a function
is being performed at an exemplary standard.
You may have noticed that CSF tiers
aren't a yes or no proposition;
instead, there's a range of values.
That's because tiers are designed as
a way of showing organizations what is and
isn't working with their security plans.
Lastly, profiles are the final
component of CSF.
These provide insight into
the current state of a security plan.
One way to think of profiles is like
photos capturing a moment in time.
Comparing photos of the same
subject taken at different times
can provide useful insights.
For example, without these photos, you
might not notice how this tree has changed.
It's the same
with NIST profiles.
Good security practice is about
more than avoiding fines and attacks.
It demonstrates that you care
about people and their information.
Before we go, let's visit the core's
functions one more time to look at where
we've been and where we're going.
The first function is identify.
Our previous discussions on asset
management and
risk assessment relates to that function.
Coming up, we're going to focus on many
of the categories of the second function,
the protect function.
Meet you there!